Your Workflow
Decompose: Break the requirements below into small, logical prompts.
Generate: Feed these prompts to your AI agent.
Review: Does the code look right? Is it hallucinating imports? Does it handle errors?
Refine: Ask the AI to refactor specific parts (e.g., "Extract the quiz logic into a separate class").
Verify: Build and run tests.
The Specifications
You must produce an application that meets the following criteria.

1. Functional Requirements (What the app does)
Data Ingestion:
The app must load flashcards from a JSON file.
It must validate the JSON structure. If the file is missing or malformed, the app should crash gracefully with a helpful error message, not a stack trace.
The Quiz Loop:
Present the "Front" of the card to the user.
Accept text input for the answer.
Compare input to the "Back" of the card (case-insensitive).
Provide immediate feedback (Correct/Incorrect).
Quiz Modes:
Sequential: Go through cards from 1 to N.
Random: Shuffle the deck.
Adaptive: This is the challenge feature. The app should prioritize cards the user previously got wrong.
Session Stats:
At the end of a quiz, show a summary table: Total Questions, Accuracy %, and a list of terms the user missed.
2. Technical Requirements
Architecture:
The code must be modular. Do not submit a single main.py file. Separation of concerns is required (e.g., data_loader.py, quiz_engine.py, ui.py).
Design Patterns:
Use the Strategy Pattern for the Quiz Modes.
Why? Because Sequential, Random, and Adaptive are different algorithms for the same task (selecting the next card). This allows you to easily add a "Spaced Repetition" mode later without rewriting the whole app.
Type Safety:
All functions must have Python Type Hints.
Testing:
The project must include a test suite (using pytest).
You need at least 80% code coverage.
Deliverables
You will submit a GitHub repository containing:

Source Code: The generated and refined Python source code.
Test Suite: A tests/ directory with passing tests.
Prompt Log: A text file (prompts.md) documenting the specific prompts you gave the AI to get the desired result.
README.md: Instructions on how to install dependencies and run the app.
Assessment
Your project will be assessed against a rubric on the following pages. Check the rubric before you start your project, and check it frequently throughout the development of your project to make sure you are completing all of the rubric criteria. Check your project against the rubric before submission.

Project Starter Github Repository
(opens in a new tab)https://github.com/udacity/cd14602-project-starter/tree/main/project

To succeed in this project, you must manage two distinct environments: your AI Assistant (the builder) and the Python Runtime (the construction site).

Project Starter Github Repository
(opens in a new tab)https://github.com/udacity/cd14602-project-starter/tree/main/project(opens in a new tab)

Building the Flashcard Quizzer CLI Application

1. Project Structure
You have been provided with a project repository containing the following skeleton. Do not delete the folder structure, as your AI agent needs this organization to separate concerns effectively.

main.py: Currently empty. This will be your entry point.
data/: Place your sample JSON files here.
utils/: For helper modules (you will generate file_handler.py here).
tests/: Currently empty. You will direct the AI to fill this with pytest cases.
docs/: Contains templates for your "AI Interaction Log." You must update this log as you work.
.claude/ or .env: Configuration files for your AI tools.
2. Implementation Milestones
You must guide your AI agent through these distinct development phases.

Phase 1: Data Layer & Validation
Create a system to load and validate flashcard data.

Requirement: The app must support JSON input in two formats:
Array Format: A simple list of objects [{"front": "...", "back": "..."}].
Object Format: A wrapper object {"cards": [...]}.
Error Handling: If the JSON is malformed or missing fields, the app must catch the error and print a friendly message (no raw Python tracebacks).
Phase 2: Core Logic & Design Patterns
Objective: Implement the quiz engine using the Strategy Pattern.

The Logic: You need three distinct ways to serve questions:
SequentialMode: Order 1, 2, 3...
RandomMode: Shuffled order.
AdaptiveMode: Prioritize cards the user gets wrong.
Implement a QuizMode abstract base class. Then create three classes that inherit from it. Use a Factory Pattern to select the correct mode based on user input."
Phase 3: The CLI & Interaction
Finally, build the user interface.

Requirements:
Use argparse to handle flags like -f (file), -m (mode), and --stats.
Display text colors (Green for correct, Red for incorrect).
Allow the user to type "exit" or press Ctrl+C to quit gracefully without errors.
3. Testing Requirements
You are responsible for the quality of the AI's code. You must direct the AI to write a comprehensive test suite. Your final submission must pass the following test scenarios:

A. Data Loader Tests (test_flashcard_loader.py)

test_load_valid_flashcards_array: Does it load a list correctly?
test_load_invalid_json: Does it gracefully handle bad syntax?
test_load_missing_required_field: Does it reject cards without a "Back"?
B. Quiz Logic Tests (test_quiz_modes.py)

test_quiz_mode_factory: Does the factory return the correct class object?
test_adaptive_mode_behavior: Does it actually repeat incorrect questions?
C. Integration Tests (test_integration.py)

test_full_session: Simulate a user answering 3 questions and checking the final stats calculation.
How to verify: Run the full suite in your terminal:

pytest --cov=. --cov-report=html
Target: >80% code coverage.

4. Definition of Done
Your project is complete when:

You can run python main.py -m adaptive -f data/python_basics.json and play a full game.
The code uses the Strategy and Factory patterns (checked by inspecting quiz_engine.py).
All tests pass, and flake8 reports no linting errors.
Your docs/ai_edit_log.md contains at least 5 examples of prompts you improved or logic you corrected.
5. Submission Checklist
Submit your GitHub repository link containing:

Complete codebase with all source files, tests, and documentation
**Completed **ai_edit_log.md with at least 5 detailed AI interaction examples
Final project report using the provided template (1000-1500 words)
Updated README.md with current setup instructions and feature descriptions
Test coverage report demonstrating >80% coverage
Code quality verification (all linting tools should pass without errors)
Tip: If the AI gets stuck or writes bad code, do not rewrite the Python yourself. Rewrite your prompt.

Rubric
Use this project rubric to understand and assess the project criteria.

AI Collaboration and Code Review
Criteria	Submission Requirements
AI Code Review

Use AI tools to generate code for your application
Review all AI-generated code using the provided checklist
Document your review process in ai_edit_log.md with specific examples
Show evidence of modifying or rejecting poor AI suggestions
Code Quality Standards

All code follows PEP 8 style guidelines
Proper error handling and input validation
Code is readable and maintainable
Functions have appropriate docstrings
Application Development
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Functional Application

Build a working application that extends the starter code
Implement at least 3 new features beyond basic CRUD operations
Application should have clear functionality and purpose
Use AI assistance throughout the development process
Design Patterns

Implement at least 1 design pattern from the provided guide
Pattern should serve a real purpose, not be forced
Document why you chose the pattern in your final report
Testing and Quality Assurance
Criteria	Submission Requirements
Unit Testing

Achieve >80% test coverage using pytest
Write tests for both original and AI-generated code
Include tests for edge cases and error conditions
Use clear test names that describe what is being tested
AI-Generated Code Validation

Test all AI-generated code thoroughly
Document any issues found with AI code in ai_edit_log.md
Show evidence of fixing or rejecting problematic AI suggestions
Documentation and Communication
Criteria	Submission Requirements
AI Interaction Log

Complete detailed ai_edit_log.md with specific examples of AI usage
Document prompts you used and AI responses you received
Explain your decision-making process for accepting/rejecting AI suggestions
Include at least 5 meaningful AI interactions
Final Report

Complete the final report using the provided template
Explain how you used AI throughout your development process
Reflect on what you learned about working with AI tools
Report should be 1000-1500 words
README Updates

Update README.md with new features and setup instructions
Provide clear usage examples
Document any dependencies or installation requirements
Suggestions to Make Your Project Stand Out
Implement multiple design patterns that serve real purposes in your application
Create comprehensive test suite with >90% coverage including edge cases
Add advanced features like configuration management, logging, or data export capabilities
Write detailed AI interaction analysis showing sophisticated understanding of AI strengths and weaknesses
Implement security best practices including input validation and error handling
Create professional documentation that would help other developers understand your AI collaboration process
Add performance optimizations and document your decision-making process
Include integration with external APIs or services using AI assistance
Develop custom utilities or helper functions that extend the starter code meaningfully
Create visual documentation like diagrams or flowcharts explaining your application architecture

